A) User management:
1. Manually add the user Samir who has the following characteristics:
◦ Login: samir
◦ Password: 11aa55@@
◦ UID: 1101
◦ Main group: samir (1101).
◦ Home directory: /home/samir/
◦ Default shell: /bin/bash
N.B: www.epochconverter.com makes it possible to determine the number of days elapsed
01/01/1970 to present.
2. Check the addition success by switching to the new user.
3. Use the appropriate commands to add the Hind user account characterized by:
◦ Login: hind
◦ Password: @#ab12AB
◦ Home directory: /home/hind
◦ Hind can only change the password one month after creating the account.
◦ She will be prompted to change the password after three months.
◦ She will be notified of a change one week before.
4. Verify successful addition by switching to new user
B) Package management:
N.B: The rest of the practical work requires an Internet connection.
1. Note the existing repository sources in your system.
2. Update package index.
3. Install, then launch, Gparted, the tool for managing and organizing disk partitions.
4. Foliate is a freeware e-book reader. This tool does not exist in
repositories maintained by Ubuntu. Foltiate developers have put a personal repository of
packages (PPA). Just add the latter to our system to install Foliate.
5. Add the PPA (Personal Package Archive) repository using the command: # add-apt-repository
ppa:apandada1/foliate
6. Update package index before installing and launching Foliate.
7. Specify the location where the source of this repository has just been added.
8. Look for packages that are named exactly firefox (use the expressions
regular).
9. List apache2 package content (web server).
10. VLC is one of the most used software for local video playback. We're going
install this software from its source code.
11. Download VLC tarball.
12. Unzip, then unzip the file.
13. Take a look at the README file.
14. View the INSTALL file
15. Follow the instructions put in INSTALL to install VLC.
16. Note any dependency package you have installed