1. Determine kernel configuration files in /boot
2. Note the Linux kernel versions supported by these configuration files.
The Linux kernel is saved in the /boot/ directory under the name vmlinux* or
vmlinuz* if it is compressed.
3. Note the versions of Linux kernels present in the system.
4. What is the size of each of these nuclei?
5. Determine the versions noted in the files that represent the ramdisk
initial.
6. Knowing that the GRUB configuration file is /boot/grub/grub.cfg for
GRUB 2 and /boot/grub/menu.lst for GRUB Legacy, determine the version of the
GRUB installed in your machine
systemd and unit management
1. Determine the number of units installed in your system (unit files).
2. Determine the number of services installed in your system (units files).
3. Deduct the percentage of installed services (InstalledServices InstalledUnits × 100).
4. Determine the number of active units in your system.
5. Determine the number of active services in your system.
6. Deduct the percentage of active services (ActiveServices ActiveUnits × 100).
7. Determine the number of units that failed during startup.
8. Note these units if they are not numerous (< 10 units).
9. Use the journalctl -u <unit.service> command to inspect the
cause of this/these failure(s).
10. Determine the number of targets in your system.
11. Use the cat action associated with the systemctl command to display the file
cron service.
12. In the principle of operation of systemd, the launch of a unit
is conditioned by a start command. For example, a unit U does not
will only launch after the launch of the P unit and before the launch of the S unit.
Use the cat action associated with the systemctl command to determine the
units that must be started before the rescue service and those that must be
be launched after this service. Note these units.
13. List rescue target dependencies. Note only dependencies
of the 1st level.
14. Determine the current target (runlevel).
15. Determine the default target.
16. Set default target to multi-user.
17. Switch to target rescue.
18. Restart the system using the systemctl command.
19. Determine the current target.
20. Reset the default target to the initial runlevel.